# Introduction to crAPI

In my preparation to work on OWASP crAPI, I first forked over the repository itself to my Github account, next i want to pull the repository locally to my system which will make me have the project on my local machine. The HEAD is on the develop branch. The project is cloned and for me, the first step is to understand and make sense of the project itself and what it does, for that, I am going to look into the docs directory of the project if I would find any documentation or readme that would make me understand the project.
## ANALYSIS STAGE - Understanding The Project and It's Functionalities

I was able to find an `overview` markdown file in the project's `docs` directory that seems to contain the overall information of the project. The application is a B2C, i.e Business to Customer application which lets any user do their car servicing or service their cars at any car mechanic shop. A user can have issues with their cars and service it at a car mechanic. The user first creates an account right on the Web application itself, then they can add/manage their cars on the platform which are tied to them and then they can request a mechanic service for each of their cars that they have uploaded that have issues. They can search for a car mechanic first on the Web app before they assign their car that has issues to any mechanic of their choice that they find. The users can also purchase car accessories from the mechanic vendors. The users also have a community section on the web app where they can upload blog posts and even comment on the blog posts of one another.

In my understanding and from the `happy paths` documentation which specifies or defines how the application is supposed to be interacted with, there are other functionalities like viewing Orders which contains the Orders of the user like their vehicle that they have serviced from a mechanic or car parts they have purchased and also Notifications too.

## Architecture of the application

I have learned from the overview page that the application uses a **micro services architecture** which contains certain components or services each dedicated to perform a specialize functionality:

1. **The Main Web Ingress Service**: So, this is the main entry point web application that the users interact with. This is the front page application that users interact with to perform all the functionalities listed above. This mean that, this ingress application is the frontend application which exposes the micro services endpoint to the public and takes the requests from the users and then communicates the request from the users with the other micro services on the user's behalf. Implemented in JavaScript and React, this is the main web application that is an ingress service that the users interact with. This web application then talks to the micro services for each functionality that the user want to access. It takes request message from the user as they interact with the web application and sends it to the respective micro service backend and then returns the response back to the web application. I am thinking that there should have been an API gateway in this architecture that actually interfaces with the end user making the request and this particular web application should sit outside of this architecture and call services from the API gateway. It uses OpenResty which has an enhanced version of Nginx Core

2. **The Identity Service**: So this Identity micro service is responsible for handling the _User_ and _Authentication_ features. From signing up, to logging in, forgot password, reset password, profile details, updating profile information etc. This service uses the Java platform and handles the user creation, user management and authentication and authorization services of the application. This service is also responsible for letting the users create and manage their vehicles and the each vehicle details alongside the vehicle location too together with this details. So, the Identity service not only handles User and Authentication related services but also Vehicle management services - The creation, updating, deleting of vehicles that belong to a user. In handling authentication services, for issuing JWT implementation, creation and validation and also for handling OTP creation, validation too. This also mean that this Identity service directly interfaces with the Mailhog service for sending OTP code for MFA, password reset and welcome email to the mail service. This Identity Service is an interesting service that requires much attention from me, I am going to scrutinize this service deeply. Because I am thinking, why will the creation and management of vehicles live on the Identity service, shouldn't there be a separation of concern, I am thinking that things that has to do with Identity and Access management should be a separate service and be battle tested to do its job well and then users should have a separate service entirely then vehicle management should be in another service but a user service could even contain the vehicle management service since vehicles is so attached to each particular user. Because, I am thinking, with vehicle actions attached to the identity service, won't this be an attack service that can be used to somehow enable the breach of the identity service itself? I mean I am just in the Analysis stage but my hypothesis might be wrong... We will get to confirm this hypothesis during my attack stage.

3. **The Community Service**: This service is responsible for handling blogs and comments. Users can create a blog post, comment on other user's blog posts, view blog posts, manage their own blog posts like deleting, updating the blog posts and comments they own etc. This service is implemented in Go. So this is like a mini social blogging application within the context larger application itself and handles posting and managing blog posts and comments by users.

4. **The Vehicle Workshop Service**: When users want to **search for a mechanic and assign a vehicle with issues to a mechanic**, this is the micro service responsible for handling that. Also, **when they want to purchase car accessories from the a vendor**, this service is also responsible for that. This workshop service is built using Python, It is the service that is responsible for searching for and locating a mechanic, after locating the mechanic, a user can then assign their vehicle that has issues and needs repairs to this mechanic. It also **handles the vehicle or the car servicing orders that has been made or the car accessories that has been purchased from a vendor**. So when I place an order for car accessories from a vendor or I placed a vehicle repair order to a mechanic to fix the vehicle for me, **the order also appears** and is being handled by this Python micro service. **The mechanics who are the vehicle servicing staffs are created using this python service and also the merchants or the vendors who sell car accessories are also created using this service**.

5. **Mailhog Service**: This is the Mail service that receives the application emails like the registration tokens, password reset tokens etc. It is the main email service of the application, even orders sends their mails here to this service. The Identity service works with this Mailhog service to deliver OTPs, etc

6. **Mongo and PostgreSQL database**: For structured data, like the orders, vehicles, vehicle services and user information...PostgreSQL database is used while for unstructured data like the notifications, community blogs and comments, MongoDB is used.


With these initial understanding of the application's services in mind, I can now proceed to investigate further the data flow and the actions or operations and functionalities that each service exposes. I am going to do this by booting up the application on my machine using docker by following the instruction and also viewing the OpenAPI documentation to understand each service's endpoints using Swagger UI. While I do this, I am using draw.io to first draw out the architecture diagram, then use my understanding gained from the web application itself and the Swagger UI OpenAPI documentation to map out the data flow for each service. 

But I am tackling this project service by service. First, I need a few things and to solidify my mental model and approach. Since each service perform distinct function from each other, this means that I can tackle each service one after the other and run every stage of my analysis through them up until the dynamic testing phase which will involve active attacks on each service, but at the end of all the services, I can then test or attack them together - integration or horizontal slice stile to see whether I can use one service as a gateway to attack another service in order to fully complete my tests for example using SSRF and to ensure that I don't just test each service in isolation without discovering interesting attack patterns where a service has access to or can be used to access the data or functionalities of another service due to a trust boundary violation.

My instinct is to setup a file structure that could allow easy scanning and proper project structure. The approach I am taking is to have a top level architecture documentation that contains the raw thought logs of my approach to threat modeling the architecture itself based on what I have learned. This top level project structure will then contain my data flow diagram and the threat model of the diagram. Now, I am creating the proper folder structure that will hold service by service analysis but first, I am creating the files for the top level files and folders. The reasoning is that initially, I thought about structuring my project such that folders exists to house different functions like diagrams will contain DFDs of all the services across the application, dynamic-testing will contain screenshots of all dynamic application testing like Burp Suite findings, hypothesis for example, notes will contain notes containing detailed thinking and findings across all the entire application, screenshots will contain screenshots of all the processes across all the services for example but I realize that that will become messy so quickly and difficult to reason about and parse later months from now when I need to look back and find something specific to a single service, for example, if i need to find a specific burp suite exploit screenshot for the Community service, I'd have to sift through the entire screenshots folder, or a particular Code-QL file walking through a source to sink code of a SQL injection in the workshop service, I'd have to spend time in finding it, this is why I am taking a different approach to structuring, One service folder wherein all the other folders like diagrams, dynamic testing, notes, sast, screenshots folder will live.

Now, for each service, we create those folders and files inside of them.
Now, i have setup my folder structure for the entire key services wherein all the necessary folders and files live, the next step for me is to begin drawing the DFD diagram for the entire architecture after which I will threat model the diagram itself. The threat model note will be in the [[architecture-threat-model]] file.

During the drawing of the DFD diagram for each service, I will find it useful from my thinking to load the swaggerUI OpenAPI specification to help me visualize the data flow for each service and also in order to help me properly threat model the service because of the inputs i can see that the specification takes in for example, the vin filed of a vehicle creation endpoint may spell out some threat for me which i may not have seen if I had just focused only on the architecture diagram itself, another way for me to do this is to play with the web application itself and try to map out my understanding of the application that way. Although, In a real world company, the DFD diagram will be drawn alongside the systems architect or lead developer and the product management and developer i mean all the respective stake holders will be in touch with the Data flow diagram, in fact we will need a design specifications where we talk about what user inputs will go into our system, how they will interact with the system or functionality in the first place, that will assist in threat modeling those activities, but right now in the absence of that, I will be making use of the OpenAPI specification or even the postman collection of this application as a base for me to understand the data flow and how the service is intended to be used.

## Investigating The Architecture Deeper By Checking The Deployment files.

The initial architecture diagram understanding I have was from the document that was shared as part of the codebase and it contains a diagram or md file called overview that talks about the services and database present like identity, community, workshop, mongodb and postgresql. However, from my review of the docker compose file because i understand that this is a micro services architecture, there may be services available and are critical to the overall architecture posture that may not have been listed in that overview document, which can be critical to security, so i dived deep into the docker compose file which I know will contain all the services and more including the ones that were mentioned in the overview file and architecture diagram and the ones that were not mentioned there but that will be important for the overall security posture. And to my surprise, I found two critical services that is very important to my data flow diagram and overall system architecture that I want to threat model. First, I was wondering why the system would just have only the web ingress service as the main entry point to the micro services without any form of API gateway to mediate between the external client which is the web ingress that users will interact with and the internal services in their trust boundaries. But to my surprise, I found an api gateway container in the docker compose file and I knew instantly I needed to review my initial diagram. I also found a chromadb database service which was not mentioned in the overview document and a chatbot service. All of these are necessary in the overall architecture. I reckon that the chatbot service which is an AI service will use the chromadb to store chat memory or for RAG purposes ( I will investigate further ). I also need to investigate from the running web application itself to check if the web ingress communicates with the API gateway itself or with the internal micro services directly by calling their APIs in its codebase. I can do this by quickly inspecting the web ingress codebase without getting drowned in code review or run the web application itself and inspect the network traffic.

The most important lesson for me however, Is to not rely fully on only the overview document or image to specify the whole full picture of the architecture but to dive deeper into deployment files especially in containerized environments like for this application...to look for docker compose files, helm files, or kubernetes manifests. That way, I will be able to have an accurate picture of the overall system services by investigating the containers to see what services are available and even the `depends_on` field of each service declaration could help me with understanding which service depends on each other which will help me with mapping out the data flows more accurately.

Researching about chromadb now tells me that it is an object data storage used for full-text, vector search which means the chatbot uses this chromadb to store chat history etc.

Of course, by diving deep into this architecture, checking the deployment files especially the docker compose file, I am still asking, what exactly are we building? The reason is because, by understanding all our components and services, It will help with properly having a mental model of our architecture, data flows and each components and their roles. Of course, each service are container applications and they can be scaled as much as possible but my data flow diagram covers each service as though they are singular components although even when they are scaled, they still live within the same trust boundary.

According to my understanding, I believed that the api gateway service I have just discovered in the docker compose file is supposed to serve as the entry point for the web ingress, however, after investigating the source code, I noticed that it has only 2 endpoints that are not related to the services at all. The endpoints at the time of investigation available are endpoints to check vin of a vehicle ownership and also endpoint to get payment info. The gateway service looks like though it is for experimentation, a demo service, a partial implementation or a sample service. But interestingly, it is a container that is active and runs. My hypothesis is that one could use this service to somehow gain access to the other adjacent services it is running together with in the same network and trust boundary. Because if this service doesn't really contain important use case, then why is it running alongside the other service containers. The containers including the web ingress service all run on the same local network, however because of reality, the web ingress service will most likely run on separate external network different from the internal micro services, this is why I decided to separate the web ingress service in its own separate trust boundary since users will access the application from this external network itself. The interesting thing here is the fact that this so-called api gateway is running on same network level and trust boundary as the other critical services like identity, workshop and community, this means this "rogue" service can somehow be used as an attack vector to compromise these important and critical and sensitive services. Investigating the docker compose file further, I noticed that the web ingress service has these critical services as dependencies that need to be healthy in order for the web ingress service to run, and also the images of these critical services including mailhog and chatbot service but not this so called api-gateway shows that the web ingress isn't dependent on or makes use of the so-called api-gateway and talks directly to the mirco services by calling their endpoints, which proves that the web ingress is the initial entry point and not the so-called api-gateway. Therefore I won't be adding this api-gateway in a separate trust boundary but also in the trust boundary of the other services since they all run on the same network space. I keep saying network space. Let me clarify! Although all these services run on my own machine's network interface which technically mean that they all run on the same trust boundary. But realistically the web ingress will be running in a separate trust boundary, the micro services in a separate trust boundary, a realistic api gateway in a separate trust boundary, the mailhog service in a separate trust boundary and the databases and data stores in a separate network environment and therefore a separate trust boundary, However, on my machine, I am simulating that separation using different ports for these services. By checking the networking tab of my browser after loading the login page, I discovered that request was directly made to the identity service endpoint for login request by the browser after i attempted to login with a random credentials. This also confirm again that the web ingress service directly talks to the micro services without talking to any api gateway or having to pass through any api gateway.

Now, I have my initial data flow diagram setup corresponding to the architecture I have already investigated. The external service involve the Web Ingress, the initial trust boundaries which contain the micro service processes alongside the so-called gateway, then the databases and then the mailhog mail server. The next step for me is to start running modeling my threats against the data flows and components but first I want to layout my trust boundary tables, threat actors, elements and data flows to be much more descriptive and ID'ed and be able to be referenced against other tables we will draw later.